All right, moving into our
Python journey, we got another
project and we have
to serve to this local cafe.
Let's see what is the problem
that they are facing.
And based on that we
will create a software.
And the best way to learn how
to build software is through tackle
down these kinds of problem.
You will learn so much more than
just going through with the syntax.
So let's go through
with this one by one.
So here's what we have.
A local cafe wants a program
that suggests a snack.
So we are building
suggestion system, all right?
And you will be surprised to know
a lot of suggestion systems are
actually mapped one to one, just
like what we are building right now.
In the early days there was
no AI machine learning.
We were actually doing all
the things that we are
about to do just like this.
If a customer ask for cookies
or samosa, which is
a local Indian dish,
it confirms the order, all right?
Otherwise it says it's not available.
So what it's saying
first task is take snack input.
So we have to put the question
in front of the user that hey,
enter your preferred snack.
And then we are going to go
ahead and check whether
this is cookies or samosa.
Both of them are absolutely fine.
Then we go ahead
and confirm the order.
Otherwise we simply show that, sorry,
we only serve cookies or samosa.
That's it.
So this is kind of a software we
have to build and you might be
wondering, hey, the wording of the
software is not really that clear
that this is exactly what we have
to do.
And this is what you do
in the real life.
You actually try to get as max
as possible from the user
and then you try to build
the software around it and then
the feedback loops continue.
So let's build this story and try
to walk you through with a couple
of new things that you haven't seen.
But these kinds of things you learn
on the go.
And this is our on the go.
So this is our snack system.
So I think instead of mini
story, I'll call this one as a snack
suggestion.py of course
the first problem in front
of us is take snack input.
So how do I take input from the user,
especially on the command line?
Later on we are going to learn that
how we can take input from anywhere.
You can take into a GUI software,
you can take input onto a,
web interface like website.
There are a lot of ways.
Right now command line
is our best tool.
So the way how we take input from
the Python input, command line
input is simply say input.
Really I told you, Python is
the most Easiest language of all.
We simply go ahead and simply
ask a question that hey, enter
your preferred snack.
And we simply go ahead
and add some space here.
And we want to store this whole user,
input into a variable.
Let's call this one as a snack.
And there we go.
First of all, I just want to print
whatever the value, I'm getting it.
This is how you build real software.
So we'll just go ahead and say let's
use a formatted string for this.
And user said user said.
And then we'll use
the variable of snack.
Let's run this program and see
what happens when we run
these kinds of programs.
So again we'll just go ahead
and say Python, Python 3
and snack suggestion, it says
enter your preferred snack.
So if I go ahead and say
something else, let's just say
I want to have a burger.
I enter this and it says burger.
Now what additionally you can do
in such kind of a program is you can
just go ahead and add an input.
Because I don't want to process
burger in so many ways.
The B could be capital,
the B could be lowercase,
the G could be capital.
User can enter the input
in any way or any format.
So what you can do further on
to this, because this is just
a string that user enters,
whenever user gives you input,
it always comes into a string
format, even the numbers.
So we go ahead and simply say I want
to run a function known as lower.
This is a function so you put up
parenthesis just like that.
Now no matter how you say this,
it's always going to be same.
So enter a preferred snack.
So I'm going to go ahead and say
burger just like this.
But the result we are
getting is all lowercase.
This will make our life little
bit easier in just a moment.
All right, so this is
first part is done.
We don't need to validate
by printing again we are happy.
Then if it is cookies
or samosa, confirm the order.
So we need to check whether
the snack which user is giving
the input should be either equal
to the cookie or to samosa.
And this is where you learn
another style of writing.
So if we know and this snack needs
to convert into some kind
of a true and false value.
So I can actually go ahead and say
this snack needs to be equal to and
by the way, one equal that we are
using at line number one, that
means I'm transferring the value
from the right hand side to the
left hand side.
But once you put two equal,
that means you are comparing
the thing this is comparison.
So I want to compare for
one thing which is cookies.
That is good.
But I also want to compare
for another thing which is samosa.
So let's go ahead and write
simple python or your snack
is equals to samosa.
That is it.
Now if user answers this, then we
simply go ahead and print a message
to the user that hey, your order,
was successfully taken.
Or we can also say something like
great, choice.
It's always a good idea
to complement the choice of the user
with an exclamation and we will say
will serve you and then whatever
the user has mentioned snack.
That's a good one.
But what if user
is saying something else?
Else we'll say show unavailability.
So we're going to go ahead and put
again notice the indentation.
We'll go back into indentation part.
We'll go ahead and say else and then
again follow with the colon.
This is important, hit enter.
And again notice the indentation.
We are using four automatically.
The editor is giving me four spaces.
That's good of it.
And then we'll simply go ahead
and print something like a message
which says, sorry, we only.
Not only only serve cookies
or samosa, with tea.
So let's run this program and see
that what user is giving.
Now we have created a dynamic
program which user actually can use.
So let's just say user simply
says I want to have burger.
So he says, oh, we only
serve cookies or samosa.
Now again, let's run the program.
This time user says samosa,
but he tries a little bit different.
So he says something
like this samosa.
Now this definitely is a weird
input, but we'll try this.
Enter this and it says great choice.
We serve you samosa.
So notice here, just adding a small
method had made our life so much
easier for these kinds of program.
And this is kind of exactly
the thing that you learn when you
build these kinds of programs.
So this part is all done.
And by the way, you have
the access to all the notes.
I'm just creating the notes back
to back so that you have
also all the access of them.
These stories, yes, do really take
a little bit extra effort, but they
actually teach really better.
And I think you will definitely rate
us pretty good and leave some
kind words in the review section.
That is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.